<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0 -->
<!-- Copyright Contributors to the Egeria project. -->

## Release 3.7 (April 2022)

??? warning "Known Issues"

    ??? info "Use chromium-based browser for UIs"
         It is recommended to use a chromium-based browser such as Google Chrome, Microsoft Edge or Apple Safari for the Egeria Ecosystem UI. Some parts of the UI experience such as Dino currently experience problems with Firefox. See [odpi/egeria-react-ui#96 :material-dock-window:](https://github.com/odpi/egeria-react-ui/issues/96){ target=gh }.

???+ functional "Functional changes"

    ???+ "Self-signed certificates"
        Egeria uses pre-generated self-signed certificates by default.

        These must be replaced for production deployments.

        During March 2022 these certificates expired. These have now been updated.

        See [here](http://egeria-project.org/guides/admin/omag-server-platform-transport-level-security/?h=tls#tls-protocol) for more information.

    ??? "Ecosystem UI"

        The Egeria Ecosystem (React) UI has been updated to use new SSL certificates. These certificates are now validated.

        Some improvements have been made to the Egeria Ecosystem (React) UI server author, around access service configuration.


??? functional "Helm Charts"

    The below points refer to chart versions 3.7.0.

    These may get updated more frequently than Egeria code releases, as we integrate other components and fix bugs.

    You can always check the latest with `helm repo update && helm search repo egeria `

    ??? info "Lab Chart for 3.7"

         The Egeria lab chart 3.7.0 has been updated to include:

         * Egeria 3.7
         * Egeria Ecosystem UI 3.5.0
         * Egeria Business UI 3.2.0

    ??? info "Base Chart for 3.7"

         The Egeria base chart 3.7.0 has been updated to include:

         * Egeria 3.7
         * Egeria Ecosystem UI 3.5.0

    ??? info "CTS & PTS Charts for 3.7"

         * Updated to use Egeria 3.7
         * Now supports in-memory repository
         * A bug preventing the graph repository due to overwriting LOADER_PATH has been fixed
         * Defaults to requiring 4GB memory/1 CPU minimum (was 8GB / 2 CPU)
         * Now uses strimzi as the Kafka implementation - the same as our other charts.
 
???+ functional "Documentation"

    Our [documentation site ](https://egeria-project.org) continues to improve. Recent updates include
    more Dojo content (under 'Learning').

???+ bugs "Bug fixes and other updates"

    For details, see the [Github release note for 3.7](https://github.com/odpi/egeria/releases/tag/V3.7){ target=gh } and the full [commit history in GitHub :material-dock-window:](https://github.com/odpi/egeria/commits){ target=gh }.


--8<-- "snippets/abbr.md"