<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0 -->
<!-- Copyright Contributors to the Egeria project. -->

## Release 5.3 (May 2025)

Release 5.3 provides significant enhancements to the mermaid visualization introduced in release 5.2.  In addition, it has two new view services: [Solution Architect OMVS](/services/omvs/solution-architect/overview) and [Data Designer OMVS](/services/omvs/data-desginer/overview) designed to support Dr.Egeria.

??? functional "Open Metadata Types"
    * The [ExternalId](/types/0017-External-Identifiers) entity has a new attribute called *externalInstanceTypeName* to allow the capture of the type name of an instance from a third party system.
    * A new entity type called [*SolutionActorRole*](/types/7/0730-Solution-Components) allows new roles that interact with a solution to be modelled.
    * A new relationship called [*SolutionComponentActor*](/types/7/0730-Solution-Components) allows the [*Actors*](/types/1/0110-Actors) using a solution component to be identified.
    * The [*SolutionComponent*](/types/7/0730-Solution-Components) entity has a new attribute called *solutionComponentType* to allow the solution architect to distinguish between different types of components.
    * The [*InformationSupplyChain*](/types/7/0720-Information-Supply-Chains) relationship has a new attribute called *label* for use in lineage graphs.
    * The [*SolutionLinkingWire*](/types/7/0735-Solution-Posts-and-Wires) relationship has new attributes *label* and *description* for use in lineage graphs.
    * The [*FileSystem*](/types/0/0056-Resource-Managers) classification has new attributes *canonicalMountPoint* and *localMountPoint* for normalizing file path names in a heterogeneous open metadata ecosystem.
    * A new relationship called [*DataMapping*](/types/7/0770-Lineage-Mapping) provides a dedicated relationship for fine-grained (column-level) lineage.
    * Types *GovernanceDomainDefinition*, *GovernanceDomainSet*, *GovernanceClassificationLevel*, *GovernanceClassificationSet*, *GovernanceStatusSet* and *GovernanceStatusLevel* have been deprecated in favour of using standard valid metadata values.
    * New types for describing data dictionaries and data specifications are available in models [0580 Data Dictionaries](/types/5/0580-Data-Dictionaries) and [0581 Data Field Implementation](/types/5/0581-Data-Field-Implementation).  
    * The definition for a data class and the relationships associated with them have been updated in model [0540 Data Classes](/types/5/0540-Data-Classes).
    * There is a new relationship called [SemanticDefinition](/types/3/0370-Semantic-Assignment) to allow glossary terms to be attached to data definitions to provide a semantic definition to the data definition.
    * The [CommentType](/types/1/0150-Feedback) has a new valid value of "REQUIREMENT".
    * The [ProjectCharter](/types/4/0442-Project-Charter) entity now has a display name.
    * The [Anchors](/types/0/0010-Base-Model) has a new attribute called *anchorScopeGUID*.  It is used to identify an element that scopes/groups/owns the anchor element. For example, a glossary term is is own anchor and its anchor scope GUID is its owning glossary.  This attribute allows fast scope based searches.
    * The [GlossaryTerm](/types/3/0330-Terms) has a new attribute called *aliases*.  It is used to identify alternative names for the glossary term.
    * The *position* attribute in the team roles [(model 0119)](/types/1/0119-Team-Roles) has been renamed to *positionName* to avoid confusion with the integer *position* attribute found in various data/schema definitions.
    * The *position*, *minCardinality* and *maxCardinality* attributes in the [SchemaAttribute](/types/5/0505-Schema-Attribute) entity has been moved to the **AttributeForSchema** and **NestedSchemaAttribute** relationships to match the style of [DataFields](/types/5/0581-Data-Field-Implementation).

??? functional "Cascaded Delete"
    --8<-- "snippets/features/delete/cascaded-delete-intro.md"

??? functional "Updated View Service: Project Manager OMVS"
    The Project Manager OMVS now has a new call to retrieve a project with its dependent projects, resources and assigned people.  This is supplied as nested JSON and also as a mermaid graph.

??? functional "Updated View Service: Collection Manager OMVS"
    The Collection Manager OMVS now has a new call to retrieve a collection and all of its nested members.  This is supplied as JSON and also as a mermaid graph.

??? functional "New View Service: Solution Architect OMVS"
    [Solution Architect OMVS](/services/omvs/solution-architect/overview) supports the management and querying of [Information Supply Chains](/concepts/information-supply-chain) and [Solution Components](/concepts/solution-component).

??? functional "New View Service: Data Designer OMVS"
    [Data Designer OMVS](/services/omvs/data-designer/overview) supports the management and querying of [Data Structures](/concepts/data-structure), [Data Fields](/concepts/data-field) and [Data Classes](/concepts/data-class).

??? functional "New View Service: Classification Explorer OMVS"
    [Classification Explorer OMVS](/services/omvs/classification-explorer/overview) supports queries that show how metadata elements are linked and classified.  This function was extracted from [Glossary Browser OMVS](/services/omvs/glossary-browser/overview) and [Feedback Manager OMVS](/services/feedback-manager/overview).

??? info "Increased resilience in error handling"
    For security reasons, Egeria should not flow exception objects as responses to REST API calls.  When exceptions occur, details of the exception are set into the response object and this information is used to create a new exception in the client side.  This prevents internal implementation details of the servers from being exposed to external callers through the stack trace.  The code that handles this exception management was only catching Exception objects.  This meant that "Null Pointer Exceptions (NPEs)" and other Java Errors were being sent.  This code has been changed to catch "Throwable".   Typically, Java application code does not catch this severity level of error.  However, it was felt that the small amount of processing that occurs under these conditions was worth it to protect the server's security.

??? danger "Rename of Open Connector Framework Wrapper Beans"
    In order to distinguish the bean names used in the Open Connector Framework (OCF) from the beans used in the Open Metadata Framework (OMF), the Bean Wrapper classes of the OCF have been renamed as follows:

    * ConnectionProperties -> ConnectionDetails
    * ConnectorTypeProperties -> ConnectorTypeDetails
    * EndpointProperties -> EndpointDetails
    * EmbeddedConnectionProperties -> EmbeddedConnectionDetails
    * RelatedAssetProperties -> RelatedAssetDetails
    * ConnectedAssetProperties -> ConnectedAssetDetails
    * VirtualConnectionProperties -> VirtualConnectionDetails

??? danger "Reversal of open metadata relationship ends"
    The following relationships have had their ends reversed (ie what was end 1 is now end 2 and vice versa).  This is to ensure the graph visualizations makes sense and to ensure that operations that use the anchor support (such as delete element) are able to reliably navigate to dependent elements by travelling from end1 to end2.  The update is permitted because these relationships are not known to be in use.

       * AssetLocation
       * TeamLeadership
       * TeamMembership
       * PersonRoleAppointment
       * TeamRoleAppointment
       * ITRoleAppointment
       * Meetings
       * NoteLogAuthorship
       * GovernanceDefinitionScope
       * GovernedBy
       * GovernanceResponsibilityAssignment
       * GovernanceDefinitionMetric
       * SchemaTypeImplementation
       * DesignModelElementsInScope
    
    The following relationships have been deprecated and replaced.  The replacements have swapped ends for the same reasons as above.  However, the deprecated relationships are currently in use and the new types allow elements using these relationships to still operate correctly, giving time to migrate them to the new relationships.

       * ConnectionToAsset replaced by AssetConnection
       * ConnectionEndpoint replaced by ConnectToEndpoint

??? danger "Removal of deprecated types and attributes"
    As Egeria has developed over the years, the type system has also evolved.  This has meant that some of the original types have been deprecated in favour of new types.  At this point in time, none of the egeria code (either in the Java runtime, samples or python pyegeria libraries) and so this is a good time to slim down the type system by removing the deprecated types and attributes.  The following has been removed:
    
    * GovernanceDomainDescription
    * GovernanceDomainSet
    * GovernanceClassificationLevel
    * GovernanceClassificationSet    
    * GovernanceStatusSet
    * GovernanceStatusLevel
    * HostLocation
    * ContentManager
    * NamingConventionRule
    * RelationalColumnType
    * RuntimeForProcess
    * SoftwareServerPlatformDeployment
    * DeployedVirtualContainer
    * HostNetwork
    * SoftwareServerDeployment
    * TermISATypeOFRelationship
    * GlossaryTermEvolution
    * HostOperatingPlatform
    * DataStoreEncoding
    * PersonalContribution
    * AssetServerUse
    * ProcessInput
    * SoftwareServerSupportedCapability
    * SchemaTypeSnippet
    * EngineActionExecutor
    * TabularColumnType
    * DesignModelElementOwnership
    * ProcessOutput
    * ProjectScope
    * SimpleDocumentType
    * DesignModelGroupOwnership
    * DesignModelGroupHierarchy
    * StructDocumentType
    * MapDocumentType
    * KnownDuplicateLink
    * BoundedSchemaType
    * ArraySchemaType
    * SetSchemaType
    * BoundedSchemaElementType
    * ArrayDocumentType
    * SetDocumentType
    * GovernanceConfidentialityLevel
    * SubjectAreaGovernance
    * ZoneGovernance
    * RelationalView
    * DerivedSchemaAttribute
    * SchemaQueryImplementation
    * DerivedRelationalColumn
    * SchemaLinkElement
    * LinkedType
    * SchemaLinkToType
    * GovernanceRoleAssignment
    * BusinessCapabilityControls
    * DigitalServiceImplementation
    * InformationSupplyChainImplementation
    * SolutionComponentImplementation
    * ResponsibilityStaffContact
    * AssetOwnership
    * GroupedMedia
    * IsATypeOfRelationship
    * DataContentForDataSet
    * PrimaryCategory
    * DataFieldValues
    * ExternalGlossaryLink
    * ExternallySourceGlossary
    * LibraryCategoryReference
    * LibraryTermReference