<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0 -->
<!-- Copyright Contributors to the Egeria project. -->

## Release 5.4 (September 2025)

_**These are DRAFT release notes.  The notes will be updated until & when 5.3 is released**_

??? functional "Open Metadata Types"
    * The [GovernanceResponsibilityAssignment](/types/4/0445-Governance-Roles) relationship now connects to an [Actor](/types/1/0110-Actors) at end 2.
    * There is a new relationship called [ImplementationResource](/types/7/0737-Solution-Implementation) to separate components available for the implementation team from the complete implementations identified by the *ImplementedBy* relationship.
    * Relationship *GovernanceDefinitionScope* has been renamed to [ScopedBy](/types/1/0120-Assognment-Scopes) to clarify its use.
    * Relationships *GovernanceProcessImplementation* and *GovernanceRuleImplementation* have been replaced by [ImplementedBy](/types/1/0120-Assognment-Scopes) to create better consistency in the way that design/requirements are linked to implementations.
    * Entity *InformationSupplyChainSegment* has been removed and, instead, [InformationSupplyChains](/type/7/0720-Information-Supply-Chains) can now be nested.  This creates a simpler, but more flexible model, particularly for large organizations that may wish for more than one level of nesting in their information supply chains.
    * Entity *DigitalService* and relationships *DigitalServiceProduct* and *DigitalServiceOperator* have been removed and, instead, [DigitalProduct](/type/7/0710-Digital-Products) becomes an entity that inherits from *Collection*.  It can now be nested using the renamed *DigitalProductDependency* (renamed from DigitalServiceDependency). Relationship *DigitalServiceManagement* becomes *DigitalProductManagement* and relationship *DigitalServiceDesign* becomes *SolutionDesign*.
    * Relationship *OrganizationalCapability* has been renamed to [BusinessCapabilityTeam](/types/4/0440-Organizational-Controls).
    * The *AssetOrigin* classification has been replaced by [DigitalResourceOrigin](/types/4/0440-Organizational-Controls) which can be linked to any element that described digital resources, rather than just assets.

??? functional "New View Service: Governance Officer OMVS"
    [Governance Officer OMVS](/services/omvs/governance-officer/overview) supports the maintenance of the metadata for a governance domain.

??? functional "New View Service: Actor Manager OMVS"
    [Actor Manager OMVS](/services/omvs/actor-manager/overview) supports the maintenance of actor profiles, actor roles and user identities.

??? functional "New View Service: Time Keeper OMVS"
    [Time Keeper OMVS](/services/omvs/time-keeper/overview) supports the maintenance and queries of [context events](/concepts/context-event).

??? functional "New View Service: Notification Manager OMVS"
    [Notification Manager OMVS](/services/omvs/notification-manager/overview) supports the management and querying of [ToDos](/concepts/to-do) and [IncidentReports](/concepts/incident-report).

??? functional "New View Service: Data Discovery OMVS"
    [Data Discovery OMVS](/services/omvs/data-discovery/overview) supports the creation of data specs and saved searches.

??? functional "New View Service: Reference Data OMVS"
    [Reference Data OMVS](/services/omvs/reference-data/overview) supports the query and maintenance of code values and reference data.
