<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0 -->
<!-- Copyright Contributors to the Egeria project. -->

## Release 6.0 (April 2026)

Six years of working with leading enterprises to build open metadata and governance services has taught us a thing or two(!!!) and so the Egeria community proudly announces the release of **Egeria Version 6.0**.

The platform and deployments have been greatly improved ...

??? functional "New leaner runtime"
    Egeria now has a [leaner runtime](/concepts/omag_server_platform), reducing cost of deployment and operation.  Despite doubling its capability, Egeria's runtime is now half the size of previous releases due to simplification and consolidation of interfaces and features at each level of the implementation.

??? functional "Enhancements to the Egeria Workspaces"
    [Egeria Workspaces](/egeria-workspaces) provides a simple up and running experience for small teams, demonstration and evaluation.
   
      - **Quickstart** provides a deployment of Egeria loaded with users, connectors and metadata for [Coco Pharmaceuticals](/practices/coco-pharmaceuticals).  It provides Jupyter Notebooks to help you explore the capabilities of Egeria.
      - **Freshstart** provides a complete deployment of Egeria configured with standard servers, connectors and reference data for a new deployment of Egeria for your team.  It has a single user defined called **bootstrap** allowing you to set up user accounts for you team.  There are Jupyter notebooks and Dr.Egeria forms to help you get started.

Below are new patterns of use to support greater engagement and automation in your organization.  This first collection describes our **No code** approach to delivering value.

??? functional "Dr.Egeria MD"

    [Dr.Egeria MD](/user-interfaces/dr-egeria/overview) provides a simple forms-based mechanism using markdown format to enable you to author and update metadata relating your business, projects, vocabulary and IT solutions.
        
    - Capture business context and business intent as decisions are made
    - Improve collaboration and data literacy across your organization including:

        - Glossaries, data dictionaries and data specifications
        - Solution blueprints and information supply chains
    
    Dr.Egeria enables you to design and author your own reports *... which can be used as new types of queries to our local MCP server*

??? functional "Retrieve context from your AI Agents with our local MCP Server"
    Egeria's new local MCP server delivers business context to AI solutions to improve the relevance and accuracy of answers.

??? functional "Improved REST APIs"
    [Egeria's APIs](/services/omvs) have been restructured to deliver complete coverage of your metadata using a consistent set of interfaces.  This includes:

    - Use of open formats for representation and delivery of textual and graphical information.  This includes JSON, Markdown and Mermaid Graphs.
    - Consistent Request/Response structured reducing your learning curve and decreasing the cost of integration
    - Results returned in context - properties, classifications, relationships, mermaid graphs
    - Complete, consistent coverage of all your metadata
    - Advanced search operations
    - Secured with bearer tokens for authentication, and both functional and instance based authorization

    These are the new APIs:

    ??? functional "New View Service: Governance Officer OMVS"
        [Governance Officer OMVS](/services/omvs/governance-officer/overview) supports the maintenance of the metadata for a governance domain.
    
    ??? functional "New View Service: Actor Manager OMVS"
        [Actor Manager OMVS](/services/omvs/actor-manager/overview) supports the maintenance of actor profiles, actor roles and user identities.
    
    ??? functional "New View Service: Time Keeper OMVS"
        [Time Keeper OMVS](/services/omvs/time-keeper/overview) supports the maintenance and queries of [context events](/concepts/context-event).
    
    ??? functional "New View Service: Notification Manager OMVS"
        [Notification Manager OMVS](/services/omvs/notification-manager/overview) supports the management and querying of [ToDos](/concepts/to-do) and [IncidentReports](/concepts/incident-report).
    
    ??? functional "New View Service: Data Discovery OMVS"
        [Data Discovery OMVS](/services/omvs/data-discovery/overview) supports the creation of survey reports and annotations for survey engines running outside of Egeria.
    
    ??? functional "New View Service: Reference Data OMVS"
        [Reference Data OMVS](/services/omvs/reference-data/overview) supports the query and maintenance of code values and reference data.

??? functional "Introducing Egeria Solutions"
    Egeria's solutions](/egeria-solutions) provide out-of-the-box support for commonly used technologies, including:

    - Files
    - Databases
    - Unity Catalog
    - Apache Kafka
    - Open API spec
    - Open Lineage

??? functional "Distributed secrets management and workload"

    - Allows decentralized control of secrets and when/where Egeria workloads operate
    - Self-service configuration of new workloads on deployed distributed platforms, empowering your teams to explore and build value from your existing estate.
    - Monitoring and reports on deployed Egeria estate and workloads covering activity and status.


??? functional "New coding frameworks"
    The coding frameworks have been enhanced to enable the development of connectors that deliver a complete value chain from metadata capture to metadata synchronization, governance and insight for a type of technology.
    
    For Java this includes:

    - Specifications to ease consumption of connectors both for people and automated tools.
    - Reference data management to enrich the capture of metadata.
    - A common context to provide access to open metadata and governance services to all types of connectors.
    - Iterators that ensure complete coverage of metadata from different systems and determine what has changed and the synchronization actions to take.
    - New survey action framework to assess the contents of different technology deployments.
    
    For Python this includes:

    - New python libraries support the development of connectors in python as an alternative to using the Java frameworks.

Finally, details of the new capabilities in this release are listed below.

??? danger "Migration from previous releases"
    With the changes to the Egeria runtime, repository types and services, the migration from earlier releases to Version 6.0 and beyond will require a migration project, rather than the typical simple software upgrade.  Contact our migration partner, Pragmatic Data Research Ltd, for assistance.

    Beyond 6.0, the Egeria community will revert to the policy of maintaining backward compatibility of all aspects of the Egeria solution.

??? functional "PostgreSQL repository enhancements"

    The previous release included a new PostgreSQL repository providing a fast, scalable industry standard repository built on PostgreSQL.  The aim was to provide a repository that could grow with your business needs; with no mysteries in operation, including high availability, backups and disaster recovery.

    Work has continued on this repository to improve the performance of the base repository, and more importantly, provide support for the pushdown of more query features into Postgres' SQL query engine.  This has dramatically reduced the number of calls to the database and coonsequently improved the responsiveness of Egeria's API.


??? functional "Open Metadata Types"
    The [open metadata types](/types) have had a major overhaul.  

    * Many common attributes have bubbled up to *Referenceable* and *Asset* - see [Model 0010 - Base Model](/types/0/0010-Base-Model).
    * Human and automated actions such as [to dos](/concepts/to-do) and [engine actions](/concepts/governance-action) have a common super-type of [Action].  This is in recognition that many governance tasks are shifting between human and automated implementation with AI.
    * Entity types such as *Glossary*, *SolutionBlueprint*, *DigitalProduct* and *DesignModel* are now types of *Collections*.  This has meant that the relationships that were used to show membership/composition for these types are no longer needed.
    * Many of the governance implementation entity types now inherit from *GovernanceDefinition*, reducing the effort to set up a governance program.  This includes the [governance actions](/concepts/governance-action).
    * The workflow engine that runs governance action processes now uses the standard lineage [ControlFlow](/types/7/0750-Data-Passing) to link engine actions together.  This makes it easier to show the lineage from Egeria's processes in conjunction with other processing engines.

??? functional "Classification History and LatestChange classification"
    The open metadata repositories have a new operation to return the history (versions) for an entity's classification.  The operation takes the entity's GUID and the name of the classification of interest.

    In recognition of this new capability, *LatestChange* classifications are no longer used and the classification has been removed from the type system.

