<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0 -->
<!-- Copyright Contributors to the Egeria project. -->

## Release 6.1 (expected September 2026)

_**These are DRAFT release notes.  The notes will be updated until and when 6.1 is released**_

??? functional "Open Metadata Types"
    The following changes have occurred to the [open metadata types](/types).  

    * Specific subtypes for PersonRole and GovernanceRole have been deprecated.   PersonRole has a new attribute called *actorRoleGroups* to allow specific groupings to be defined.   Egeria includes a number of predefined groups in the CoreContentPack as ValidMetadataValues.
        
        * *TeamMember* - person who is a member of a team.
        * *TeamLeader* - person who is a leader of a team.
        * *ProjectManager* - person leading a project.
        * *NoteLogAuthor* - person controbuting to a note log.
        * *CommunityMember* - person eho is a member of a community.
        * *CrowdSourceingContributor* - person eho part of a crowdsourcing effort.
        * *GovernanceOfficer* - person leading a governance domain.
        * *GovernanceRepresentative* - Describes an advisor or representative from a governance domain that is working with other roles to help them with their governance tasks.
        * *LocationOwner* - Describes a role that has specific responsibilities with respect to a [location](/types/0/0025-Locations).
        * *BusinessOwner* - Describes a role that has specific responsibilities with respect to a [business area or service](/types/4/0440-Organization-Controls).
        * *SolutionOwner* - Describes a role that has specific responsibilities with respect to a [solution](/types/7/0740-Solution-Blueprints).
        * *AssetOwner* - Role responsible for the correct management of an [asset](/types/0/0010-Base-Model).
        * *SubjectAreaOwner* - person responsible for the definitions within a [subject area](/types/4/0425-Subject-Areas).
        * *ComponentOwner* - person responsible for a component such as a [software module](/type/2/0281-Software-Modules).
        * *DataItemOwner* - person responsible for the correctness of a particular type of data value throughout its lifetime.  Often these data values flow between systems and the DataItemOwner must be sure it is correct in all places.
        * *DigitalProductManager* - person responsible for the management and development of a digital product.
    
    * New types for [*Perspective*](/types/1/0145-Perspectives), [*Question*](/types/3/0340-Dictionary), [*Skill*](/types/1/0145-Perspectives), [*AssociatedSkills*](/types/1/0145-Perspectives), and [*SkillSet*](/types/1/0145-Perspectives) have been added.  This is to support context intelligence for AIs.
    * New types for [*DataHub*](/types/7/0705-Data-Sharing) and [*DataSharingRequest*](/types/7/0705-Data-Sharing) have been added.  This is to support data sharing hubs.
    * The *GovernanceStrategy* entity type has been deprecated from [*GovernanceDriver*](/types/4/0405-Governance-Drivers).  This means the governance drivers are more focused on the external factors that drive governance and the response from the governance teams is doumented in the governance policies.

??? functional "Extended View Service: Asset Maker API"
    [Asset Maker API](/services/omvs/asset-maker/overview) now supports the maintenance and querying of [Software Capabilities](/concepts/software-capability).

??? functional "New View Service: Multi Language API"
    [Multi Language API](/services/omvs/multi-language/overview) supports the attachments of translations for different languages to metadata instances.

??? functional "New View Service: DevOps Pipeline API"
    [DevOps Pipeline API](/services/omvs/devops-pipeline/overview) supports the maintenance of infrastructure metadata when new software is deployed to production.

??? functional "New View Service: Privacy Officer API"
    [Privacy Officer API](/services/omvs/privacy-officer/overview) supports the maintenance of data processing descriptions associated with data processing purposes using in data privacy and data sharing agreements.

??? danger "Default port for OMAG Server Platform is now 7443"
    The default port for the OMAG Server Plaform for a native build and in the docker container is now 7443.  This is to remove any conflict with the Quickstart environment.  It did not matter which one changed as long as one of the environments did.  The default environment was chosen since it had the least impact on community members.
