<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0 -->
<!-- Copyright Contributors to the Egeria project. -->

# Release 3.12 (October 2022)

**These docs are currently under development for this release**


??? warning "Known Issues"

    This section highlights any significant issues to be aware of. Refer to our [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/odpi/egeria/issues) for a full list of open issues or to open a new one.

    ??? info "Use chromium-based or Safari browser for UIs"
         It is recommended to use a chromium-based browser such as Google Chrome, Microsoft Edge or Apple Safari for the Egeria Ecosystem UI. Some parts of the UI experience such as Dino currently experience problems with Firefox. See [odpi/egeria-react-ui#96 :material-dock-window:](https://github.com/odpi/egeria-react-ui/issues/96){ target=gh }.

    ??? info "Ecosystem UI minor issues"

        We are continuing to develop the Ecosystem UI & improve it's capability and usability. These are not regressions in this release. Known issues include:

        * [odpi/egeria-react-ui#461](https://github.com/odpi/egeria-react-ui/issues/463){ target=gh } - Dino: cannot retrieve server audit log twice.
        * [odpi/egeria-react-ui#465](https://github.com/odpi/egeria-react-ui/issues/463){ target=gh } - Dino: Error retrieving cohort information in Dino.
        * [odpi/egeria-react-ui#464](https://github.com/odpi/egeria-react-ui/issues/464){ target=gh } - Buttons can appear off screen. Workaround is to enlarge window.
        * [odpi/egeria-react-ui#465](https://github.com/odpi/egeria-react-ui/issues/465){ target=gh } - Search dialog still appears if no server selected.

        See [odpi/egeria-react-ui](https://github.com/odpi/egeria-react-ui/issues){ target=gh } for all issues or to open a new one on this UI.

    ??? info "Documentation Link errors"

        We are aware of broken links in the documentation here, as well as broken links to the documentation contained within the Egeria code -
        for example links to component information.

        We are trying to fix these as we update the docs, but please raise any additional problems found in [egeria-docs](https://github.com/odpi/egeria-docs/issues){ target=gh }.
        We would also be very grateful for any PRs that fix issues.

??? bugs "Kafka consumer group id could not be set"

    [odpi/egeria#6638](https://github.com/odpi/egeria/issues/6549){ target=gh } has now been fixed.

    This addresses a situation where the ability to override the kafka consumer group id was not working correctly.

    * If no consumer group id is set then the current behaviour continues -- we use the server id as default, both for the default event bus config, as well as during the setup of embedded connections (default)
    * If local.server.id is specified in the default event bus config, this is used for all additional connections (intent of old behaviour)
    * If group.id is specified in the consumer properties, this is used instead (higher priority) (more standard approach)

??? bugs "Lost Cohort membership - Initial kafka offset was incorrect"

    [odpi/egeria#6712](https://github.com/odpi/egeria/issues/6549){ target=gh } has  addressed a situation where the initial seek position to read kafka messages from was incorrectly set. This mostly affected initial configuration/setup and automated tests (which always start clean) since
     the start offset is not already stored. In these cases cohort membership would not be complete - so some servers would not see other servers. 

    This was the cause of the intermittent issues referred to in previous release notes.

    This is now fixed.

??? functional "Open Metadata Types"

    * The **ProfileLocation** relationship between **ActorProfile** and **Location** has been added to model [0110 Actors](/types/1/0110-Actors).
    * The **AssignmentScope** relationship between two **Referenceable** entities has been added to model [0120 Assignment Scopes](/types/1/0120-Assignment-Scopes).  The [ProjectScope](/types/1/0130-Projects) and [GovernanceRoleAssignment](/types/4/0445-Governance-Roles) relationships are deprecated in favour of this new relationship.
    * New parameters `stewardTypeName` and `stewardPropertyName` have been added to the **ValidValuesMapping** and **ReferenceValueAssignment** relationships to allow the steward to be represented by a UserIdentity, a PersonRole or an ActorProfile.  See model [0545](/types/5/0545-Reference-Data).
    * The [**ValidValuesImplementation**](/types/5/0545-Reference-Data) becomes a multi-link relationship.
    * The *status* attribute on [*Project*](/types/1/0130-Projects) is deprecated in favour of the more specific *projectStatus* attribute, which makes it easier to align with an appropriate valid value set.
    * New parameters `name` and `contactType` have been added to the **ContactDetails** entity to allow more detail about a contact method to be captured.  See model [0110](/types/1/0110-Actors).
    * New parameter `pronouns` has been added to the **Person** entity to capture an individual's pronoun preferences.  See model [0112](/types/1/0112-People).
    * New parameter `identifier` has been added to the **Team** entity to capture code identifers allocated to teams.  See model [0115](/types/1/0115-Teams).
    * A new relationship called **Stakeholder** has been added to link ActorProfiles with Referenceables.  See model [0130](/types/1/0130-Projects).
    * The *BusinessCapabilityControls* relationship is deprecated in favour of the more generic [*GovernanceDefinitionScope*](/types/4/0401-Governance-Definitions).

??? functional "Additional HTTP headers can now be passed to security plugins"

    Additional HTTP headers can now be passed to security plugins, and will also be propogated on federated queries

    See [odpi/egeria#5700](https://github.com/odpi/egeria/issues/5700){ target=gh } for the implementation.

    These notes will be updated with further information as it becomes available. 

??? functional "Helm charts - Installing multiple charts on the same k8s cluster"

    The charts have been updated to allow multiple installs on the same cluster. Previously this was not possible due to the default Strimzi install (included in the charts below) creating a cluster-wide resource.

    To allow co-existance:

    * install Strimzi manually, ensuring the operator watches ALL namespaces
    * Add '--set strimzi.enabled=false' to any Helm install of Egeria charts, so that they do not install the Strimzi operator

    See [docs](https://egeria-project.org/guides/operations/kubernetes/charts/overview/?h=strimzi#strimzi-permissions-and-co-existance) for more information

??? functional "Helm charts - Installing additional connectors"

    Additional connectors can now be specified when installing with both the 'base' and 'odpi-egeria-lab' charts.

    The specified files will be downloaded into /deployment/server/extralib & be available within the classpath, ready to be loaded as needed.

    Both a URL and a filename MUST be specified. For example below we obtain the xtdb and postgres connectors, plus a jdbc driver:

    In a file ~/extra.yaml add:

    ```    
    extralibs:
    - url: https://search.maven.org/remotecontent?filepath=org/odpi/egeria/egeria-connector-xtdb/3.10/egeria-connector-xtdb-3.10-jar-with-dependencies.jar
      filename: egeria-connector-xtdb-3.10-jar-with-dependencies.jar
    - url: https://oss.sonatype.org/service/local/repositories/snapshots/content/org/odpi/egeria/egeria-connector-postgres/3.11-SNAPSHOT/egeria-connector-postgres-3.11-20220826.091931-1.jar
      filename: egeria-connector-postgres.jar
    - url: https://jdbc.postgresql.org/download/postgresql-42.5.0.jar
      filename: postgresql.jar
    ```
    Then when installing specify these as configuration overrides ie:
    ```
    helm install base egeria/base -f ~/etc/extra.yaml
    ```
     
    If any connectors cannot be loaded the Egeria pods will not start, and the configuration will need to be corrected.

??? info "Helm charts / containers / source - Changes to Jupyter notebooks"

    Jupyter notebook source has now moved to a [new repository](https://github.com/odpi/egeria-jupyter-notebooks).

    The Egeria Jupyter notebooks container, used in our lab Helm chart, no longer contains our Jupyter notebooks. Instead it contains only the Jupyter code with minimal changes required for security.

    The Jupyter notebooks are now downloaded at startup from the new GitHub repository, controlled by the Helm chart definitions. This will always retrieve the latest, main branch.

    Additionally the Jupyter pod now uses https by default, and a login token is REQUIRED. To obtain this token, view the output from the Jupyter pod ie:
    ```
    ➜  master git:(master) kubectl get pods | grep jupyter
    lab-odpi-egeria-lab-jupyter-7d9798d75-lwdgb        1/1     Running   1 (3h53m ago)   3h54m
    ➜  master git:(master) kubectl logs lab-odpi-egeria-lab-jupyter-7d9798d75-lwdgb | grep TOKEN
    ➜  master git:(master) kubectl logs lab-odpi-egeria-lab-jupyter-7d9798d75-lwdgb | grep -y token
    [I 2022-08-31 16:18:30.730 ServerApp] https://lab-odpi-egeria-lab-jupyter-7d9798d75-lwdgb:8888/lab?token=091f2f66a76152b40b7ae2056ace8719bd57faa42fcbb286
    [I 2022-08-31 16:18:30.730 ServerApp]  or https://127.0.0.1:8888/lab?token=091f2f66a76152b40b7ae2056ace8719bd57faa42fcbb286
    https://lab-odpi-egeria-lab-jupyter-7d9798d75-lwdgb:8888/lab?token=091f2f66a76152b40b7ae2056ace8719bd57faa42fcbb286
    or https://127.0.0.1:8888/lab?token=091f2f66a76152b40b7ae2056ace8719bd57faa42fcbb286
    ➜  master git:(master)
    ```

    This value will be required when logging into the Jupyter UI.
    
    Note that this token is regenerated when the pod restarts. This may be made persistent in a future update.

??? functional "Helm Chart versions"

    These charts may get updated more frequently than Egeria code releases, as we integrate other components and fix bugs. You can always check the latest with `helm repo update && helm search repo egeria `

    Note that the Business UI remains at an older version, as the code is currently undergoing some refactoring.

    To see known issues/upcoming work or to report issues see [egeria-charts](https://github.com/odpi/egeria-charts/issues){ target=gh }

    ??? info "Tested environments"

        The Egeria charts have been tested in:
        
        * Rancher Desktop 1.5.1
        * Red Hat OpenShift 4.10

    ??? info "Lab Chart for 3.10"

         The Egeria lab chart 3.10.0 has been updated to include:

         * Egeria 3.11
         * Egeria Ecosystem UI 3.8.0
         * Egeria Business UI 3.2.0
         * Strimzi 0.30

    ??? info "Base Chart for 3.10"

         The Egeria base chart 3.10.0 has been updated to include:

         * Egeria 3.11
         * Egeria Ecosystem UI 3.8.0
         * Strimzi 0.30


    ??? info "CTS & PTS Charts for 3.10"

         * Egeria 3.11
         * Strimzi 0.30

??? bugs "Bug fixes and other updates"

    For details on core Egeria changes, see the [GitHub release note for 3.11](https://github.com/odpi/egeria/releases/tag/V3.11){ target=gh } and the full [commit history in GitHub :material-dock-window:](https://github.com/odpi/egeria/commits){ target=gh }.


--8<-- "snippets/abbr.md"
