<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0 -->
<!-- Copyright Contributors to the Egeria project. -->

# Release 3.13 (Planned for November 2022)

_**These are DRAFT release notes, initially copied from the previous release
The notes will be updated until & when 3.13 is released**_

??? functional "Open Metadata Types"

    * A new attribute called *versionIdentifier* has been added to the [*Asset*](/types/0/0010-Base-Model) entity type to support assets that are periodically released.
    * A new attribute called *languageCode* has been added to the [*TranslationDetail*](/types/0/0022-Translations) entity type to support ISO-639 language codes.
    * The *Actor* entity type has been added to model [0110 Actors](/types/1/0110-Actors).  This acts as a common super type for [*ActorProfile*](/types/1/0110-Actors), [*UserIdentifier*](/types/1/0110-Actors) and [PersonRole](/types/1/0112-People) to create a common root for different representations of actors.
    * A new attribute *toDoType* has been added to the [*ToDo*](/types/1/0137-Actions) entity type.
    * Relationship type [*ActionAssignment*](/types/1/0137-Actions) can now link [*Actors*](/types/1/0110-Actors) rather than just [*PersonRoles*](/types/1/0112-People) to a [ToDo](/types/1/0137-Actions).
    * The *ParquetFile* entity type has been added to model [0220 Files and Folders](/types/2/0220-Files-and-Folders).
    * A new attribute *pathName* has been added to the [*FileFolder*](/types/2/0220-Files-and-Folders) entity type.
    * New attributes *pathName* and *fileName* have been added to the [*DataFile*](/types/2/0220-Files-and-Folders) entity type.
    * The *ServiceLevelObjectives* entity type has been added to model [0430](/types/4/0430-Technical-Controls)
    * New attributes *entitlements*, *obligations* and *restrictions* have been added to the *License* relationship.  See model [0481](/types/4/0481-Licenses).
    * New types to support terms and conditions are added to model [0483](/types/4/0483-Terms-And-Conditions).
    * New types to support agreements are added to model [0484](/types/4/0484-Agreements).
    * The *DigitalProduct* classification is added to model [0710](/types/7/0710-Digital-Service) as part of the data product support.
    * New types to support digital subscriptions are added to model [0711](/types/7/0711-Digital-Subscription).
    * Relationship type [*DigitalServiceOperator*](/types/7/0715-Digital-Service-Ownership) can now link [*Teams*](/types/1/0115-Teams) rather than just [*Organizations*](/types/4/0440-Organizational-Controls) to a [DigitalService](/types/7/0710-Digital-Service).

--8<-- "snippets/abbr.md"
