<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0 -->
<!-- Copyright Contributors to the Egeria project. -->

## Release 3.15 (February 2023)

??? info "Last 3.x release"

    * This is the last planned 3.x release, and the last release supporting Java 11 and Maven
    * The next release is expected to be 4.0
    * 4.0 will require Java 17 or later, and will be built using Gradle
    * 4.0 is expected to release by early April 2023

??? functional "Open Metadata Types"

    * A new attribute called *waitTime* has been added to the [*GovernanceActionProcessStep*](/types/4/0462-Governance-Action-Processes) entity type to allow delays to be added into a process definition.
    * A new attribute called *completionMessage* has been added to the [*EngineAction*](/types/4/0463-Engine-Action) entity type to allow a message from the governance service on the results of the action or the reasons why it failed.
    * A new attribute called *completionMessage* has been added to the [*TargetForAction*](/types/4/0463-Engine-Action) relationship type to allow a message from the governance service on the results of the processing the target or the reasons why it failed.
    * Appropriate properties have been added to the [*DigitalProduct*](/types/7/0710-Digital-Service) classification.  These were missing from its original definition in release 3.13.
    * A new relationship called [*DigitalServiceProduct*](/types/7/0710-Digital-Service) links a *DigitalService* to a *DigitalProduct*.
    * The [*DigitalServiceOperator*](/types/7/0715-Digital-Service-Ownership) can now be any *Referenceable* rather than being restricted to a *Team*.
    * The [*SolutionLinkingWire*](/types/7/0735-Solution-Ports-and-Wires) relationship can link any *Referenceable* rather than being restricted to a *SolutionPort*.  This means that solution ports can be wired to [DigitalProducts](/types/7/0710-Digital-Service) and other artifacts that they interact with.

??? functional "Change in unique attribute checking for OMAS entity creation" 

     The generic handler is used by OMAS's to perform common tasks. One of those tasks is to create an Entity bean.
     As part of this bean creation, the code checks that unique values are unique by searching for existing entities of the 
     type of the bean to be created. The code has been changed in this area to check Entities using the type where the
     unique attribute is defined (i.e. potentially a super type).
     For example if a [GlossaryTerm](/types/3/0330-Terms/) entity is being created, instead of checking that the [qualifiedName](/parameters/qualified-name) is unique within 
     all entities with type [GlossaryTerm](/types/3/0330-Terms/), it now checks that the [qualifiedName](/parameters/qualified-name) is unique within all entities with type 
     [Referencable](/types/0/0010-Base-Model/#referenceable)  

??? warning "Known Issues"

    This section highlights any significant issues to be aware of. Refer to our [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/odpi/egeria/issues) for a full list of open issues or to open a new one.

    ??? info "Use chromium-based or Safari browser for UIs"
         It is recommended to use a chromium-based browser such as Google Chrome, Microsoft Edge or Apple Safari for the Egeria Ecosystem UI. Some parts of the UI experience such as Dino currently experience problems with Firefox. See [odpi/egeria-react-ui#96 :material-dock-window:](https://github.com/odpi/egeria-react-ui/issues/96){ target=gh }.

    ??? info "Ecosystem UI minor issues"

        We are continuing to develop the Ecosystem UI & improve it's capability and usability. These are not regressions in this release. Known issues include:

        * [odpi/egeria-react-ui#461](https://github.com/odpi/egeria-react-ui/issues/463){ target=gh } - Dino: cannot retrieve server audit log twice.
        * [odpi/egeria-react-ui#465](https://github.com/odpi/egeria-react-ui/issues/463){ target=gh } - Dino: Error retrieving cohort information in Dino.
        * [odpi/egeria-react-ui#464](https://github.com/odpi/egeria-react-ui/issues/464){ target=gh } - Buttons can appear off screen. Workaround is to enlarge window.
        * [odpi/egeria-react-ui#465](https://github.com/odpi/egeria-react-ui/issues/465){ target=gh } - Search dialog still appears if no server selected.

        See [odpi/egeria-react-ui](https://github.com/odpi/egeria-react-ui/issues){ target=gh } for all issues or to open a new one on this UI.

    ??? info "Egeria UI issues"
        See [odpi/egeria-ui](https://github.com/odpi/egeria-ui/issues) for all issues or to open new one for Egeria UI.

    ??? info "Documentation Link errors"

        We are aware of broken links in the documentation here, as well as broken links to the documentation contained within the Egeria code -
        for example links to component information.

        We are trying to fix these as we update the docs, but please raise any additional problems found in [egeria-docs](https://github.com/odpi/egeria-docs/issues){ target=gh }.
        We would also be very grateful for any PRs that fix issues.

??? functional "Helm Chart versions"

    These charts may get updated more frequently than Egeria code releases, as we integrate other components and fix bugs. You can always check the latest with `helm repo update && helm search repo egeria `

    Note that the Business UI remains at an older version, as the code is currently undergoing some refactoring.

    To see known issues/upcoming work or to report issues see [egeria-charts](https://github.com/odpi/egeria-charts/issues){ target=gh }

    ??? info "Tested environments"

        The Egeria charts have been tested in:
        
        * Rancher Desktop v1.7.0
        * Kubernetes v1.26.1
        * Red Hat Openshift 4.11

    ??? info "Lab Chart for 3.15"

         The Egeria lab chart 3.15.0 has been updated to include:

         * Egeria 3.15
         * Egeria Ecosystem UI 3.8.0
         * Egeria Business UI 3.2.2
         * Strimzi 0.33.0 with Kafka 3.3.2
         * Jupyter Notebook v3.5.2


    ??? info "Base Chart for 3.15"

         The Egeria base chart 3.15.0 has been updated to include:

         * Egeria 3.15
         * Egeria Ecosystem UI 3.8.0
         * Strimzi 0.33.0 with Kafka 3.3.2


    ??? info "CTS & PTS Charts for 3.15"

         * Egeria 3.15
         * Strimzi 0.33.0 with Kafka 3.3.2

??? bugs "Bug fixes and other updates"

    For details on core Egeria changes, see the [GitHub release note for 3.15](https://github.com/odpi/egeria/releases/tag/V3.15){ target=gh } and the full [commit history in GitHub :material-dock-window:](https://github.com/odpi/egeria/commits/egeria-release-3.15){ target=gh }.

--8<-- "snippets/abbr.md"
