<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0 -->
<!-- Copyright Contributors to the Egeria project. -->


## Release 4.1 (29 May 2023)


??? functional "Open Metadata Types"
    * A new relationship [*SampleData*](/types/0/0010-Basic-Model) links an Asset entity describing a collection of sample data that originates from the resource represented by the Referenceable entity.
    * A new *sourceVersionNumber* attribute has been added to the [*SourcedFrom*](/types/0/0011-Managing-Referenceables) relationship type to allow the version of the element that is copied to be recorded.
    * A new classification called [*TemplateSubstitute*](/types/0/0011-Managing-Referenceables) has been added to isolate relationships included in templates from normal metadata queries.
    * A new classification called [*RootCategory*](/types/3/0320-Category-Hierarchy) has been added to identify *GlossaryCategory* entities that are the top of a category hierarchy.
    * The [*GlossaryTermEvolution*](/types/3/0385-Controlled-Glossary-Development) relationship has been deprecated.
    * New classifications *EditingGlossary* and *StagingGlossary* have been added to the [*0385*](/types/3/0385-Controlled-Glossary-Development) model to support the controlled glossary development process.
    * A new classification called [*DataFieldValues*](/types/2/0210-Data-Stores) allows the characterization of a collection of data values.
    * A new attribute called *publishVersionIdentifier* has been added to [GlossaryTerm](/types/3/0330-Terms) to allow authors to control the version of published terms.

??? functional "New Open Metadata View Services (OMVS)"
    In this release we have added the following view services to aid organizations writing user interfaces (UIs):

    * [Glossary Browser OMVS](/services/omvs/glossary-browser/overview)
    * [Glossary Manager OMVS](/services/omvs/glossary-manager/overview)

??? functional "Glossary specific security"
    The [Server Metadata Security Connector](/concepts/server-metadata-security-connector) has been extended with a new optional interface that allows the connector to control authorization requests to glossaries.  See the [Metadata Security](/features/metadata-security/overview) feature for more details.

??? functional "Secrets store connectors"
    The [Secrets Store Connector](/concepts/secrets-store-connector) enables a connector to access its secrets (passwords, certificates, ...) from a secure location at runtime.

??? functional "HMS listener"
    The [Hive Metastore (HMS) listener](/connectors/repository/hms/overview/#using-with-the-hive-metastore-listener) runs in the HMS process,
    and issues Egeria Events when HMS tables and added, dropped or altered. The git repository for the listener is [https://github.com/odpi/egeria-listener-hms](https://github.com/odpi/egeria-listener-hms).

??? functional "Other functional fixes and enhancements"

    * Fixed CORS support in ui-chassis-spring and code clean-up from previous Spring migration.
    * Added back support for 'LineageMapping' relationship in Open Lineage Services.
    * Simplified Data Engine OMAS lineage creation by removing port aliases.
    * Fixed Asset Catalog OMAS search by name for Process assets.
    




--8<-- "snippets/abbr.md"
