<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0 -->
<!-- Copyright Contributors to the Egeria project. -->


## Release 4.3 (expected September 2023)

_**These are DRAFT release notes, initially copied from the previous release
The notes will be updated until & when 4.3 is released**_

??? functional "Open Metadata Types"
    * The  [*HostClusterMember*](/types/0/0035-Complex-Hosts) relationship has new properties *memberRole* and *additionalProperties* to improve ability to describe a host cluster operation.
    * The  [*DataSet*](/types/0/0010-Base-Model), [*DataStore*](/types/2/0210-Data-Stores), [*DeployedAPI*](/types/2/0212-Deployed-APIs), [*DeployedSoftwareComponent*](/types/2/0215-Software-Components) and [*DataFeed*](/types/2/0223-Events-and-Logs) entity types each have a new attribute called *deployedImplementationType* to describe the technology supporting the associated component.  This addition is to enable integration connectors to be more precise in describing the technology they are cataloguing.  This attribute is also used in [*SoftwareServerPlatform*](/types/0037-Software-Server-Platforms), [*SoftwareServer*](/types/0/0040-Software-Servers) and [*SoftwareCapability*](/types/0/0042-Software-Capabilities) entity types; along with the [ServerPurpose](/types/0/0041-Server-Purpose) and [*CloudPlatform*](/types/0/0090-Cloud-Platforms-and-Services) classification.  There are subtypes of *DataStore* (*LogFile*, *GraphStore*, *MetadataRepository*) have been modified because they already include the property and duplicate properties in the type hierarchy cause indexing problems in some repositories.  Similarly, there were duplicated *deployedImplementationType* properties in the [*ServerPurpose*](/types/0/0041-Server-Purpose) classification affecting *RepositoryProxy* and *MetadataServer* classifications. 


??? functional "Integration Connector function"
    Integration connectors can now check to see if they are in the middle of refresh() processing.  This is valuable in multi-threaded operation, for example when processing events.  Typically many of the events that are generated while the connector is being called to `refresh()` are caused by the connector's activity.  There is a new method on the integration context called [`isRefreshInProgress()`](https://odpi.github.io/egeria/org/odpi/openmetadata/frameworks/integration/context/IntegrationContext.html).  It returns true if the connector is currently running its `refresh()` method.  An example of how to use this method is found in the [developer guide](/guides/developer/integration-connectors/overview/#registering-a-listener-with-open-metadata).

??? functional "Open Metadata Integration Services (OMISs) updates"
    * [Category Integrator OMIS](/services/omis/catalog-integrator/overview) supports the stewardship services from [Asset Manager OMAS](/services/omas/asset-manager/overview) through the [`StewardshipExchangeService`](https://odpi.github.io/egeria/org/odpi/openmetadata/integrationservices/catalog/connector/StewardshipExchangeService.html).
    * A number of fixes have been made to the context methods of the OMISs that were incorrectly exposing the `userId`, `externalSourceGUID` and `externalSourceName` parameters.  These have been corrected so these values come from the connector's configuration.  The affected OMISs are:

        * [Catalog Integrator OMIS](/services/omis/catalog-integrator/overview)
        * [Display Integrator OMIS](/services/omis/display-integrator/overview)
        * [Infrastructure Integrator OMIS](/services/omis/infrastructure-integrator/overview)
        * [Lineage Integrator OMIS](/services/omis/lineage-integrator/overview)
        * [Security Integrator OMIS](/services/omis/security-integrator/overview)

??? functional "Apache Atlas Integration Connector"
    The [Apache Atlas Integration Connector](/connectors/integration/apache-atlas-catalog-integration-connector) has been enhanced to catalog Assets and Lineage from Apache Atlas into the open metadata ecosystem.  It maintains [semantic assignment](/types/3/0370-Semantic-Assignment) relationships between the glossary terms, exchanged in the first release of the connector, with the Apache Atlas assets it finds.


??? functional "Conformance Test Suite"
    There is a new option on the repository workbench to allow you to restrict the number of different types of instances that are tested.  By default, all combinations of the types supported by the technology under test, are used when testing the instance methods.  For native repository connectors, that can add up to a lot of tests, taking many hours to run.  In 4.3, we have introduced a new option called *testEntityTypes* that is [added to the workbench configuration](/guides/admin/servers/configuring-a-conformance-test-server). It is set to a list of entity types such as `["Asset", "InformalTag"]` and the tests are restricted to these types, their super types and any relationships and classifications that can connector to these entity types. 


--8<-- "snippets/abbr.md"
